## Research with the Moving Universe Lab (MULab) 
##### under Prof. Jessica Lu

[MULab](https://jluastro.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/MULab/overview)

Primary work involves deriving the extinction law of the galactic center via
red clump (RC) stars using data from JWST. 

The work generally involves building color-magnitude diagrams, extracting theoretical
isochrones, isolating the RC cluster in the CMD, and using the slope of the RC
cluster to derive extinction ratios, which when extrapolated yield an
extinction law that researchers can use to better understand the region of
stars around Sagittarius A*. 

More specifically, I write statistical models to accurately measure the slope
of the Red Clump Cluster in the CMDs of the Galactic Center. This involves
unsharp masking, comparing to theoretical isochrones of increasing extinction,
binning the CMD and 3D compound-fitting and much more. 

`messy_jwst_exintction` and `messy_jwst` are both  previous JWST messy work, **`work` is current**.

We are close to publication so I am compiling all my work into .py files in
the `work` directory. Within the `work` directory lies a `plots&data` folder
which stores all image and data files corresponding to each python file. There
is also a `flystar` directory which contains code for performing matching
algorithms, with or without possible coordinate transformations, between two star catalogs.

### Overview of Code in `work` 

[color_magnitude_diagrams.py](https://github.com/devdeliw/research/blob/main/work/color_magnitude_diagrams.py) performs all operations regarding generating a CMD. If the catalogs of different wavelengths are not matched, it implements a KDTree nearest neighbor algorithm with a certain `dr_tol` and checks for matches to be within a `dm_tol`. Provides the option to generate unsharp masks (deemphasizing less dense regions and emphasizing dense regions) with a certain `binsize` and `binwidth`. It also provides the option to plot a regular CMD or generate one that plots points with color as a function of their density. See `work/plots&data/color_magnitude_diagram_plots/` and `work/plots&data/unsharp_mask/`. 

[isochrones.py](https://github.com/devdeliw/research/blob/main/work/isochrones.py)
performs all operations regarding generating and plotting stellar isochrones,
with an emphasis on plotting isochrones of *increasing extinction* to hopefully
line them up along with the Red Clump Bar of a CMD. It allows you to specify
all parameters of a synthetic stellar isochrone based on
[SPISEA](https://spisea.readthedocs.io) along with the atmospheric, evolution,
and reddening laws to use. See `work/plots&data/isochrone_plots&data/`.

[red_clump_analysis.py](https://github.com/devdeliw/research/blob/main/work/red_clump_analysis.py)
performs the bulk of the analysis on the RC bar. Normally one cuts of the RC
portion of a CMD using two parallel lines by-eye, and afterwards determines the
slope of the stars within the cutoff accordingly. This of course is to
a degree, dependent on one's eye, and errors are hard to quantify using this methodology. 

This code attempts to determine the slope of the RC cluster without any
dependency on RC cutoffs by-eye.

The first class requires only a rough rectangular cutoff
*surrounding* the RC bar. It afterwards segments the rectangular
cutoff of the CMD into a user-specified `n` number of segments. It generates
histograms for each segment a
nd performs a compound fit between an
`astropy.models.Gaussian1D() + astropy.models.Linear1D()` to extract the mean
mag value of each segment. However, it goes beyond, and without any
user-intervention, 

- Performs a series compound fits and determines if a fit works -- by itself. 
- Afterwards iterates through all compound fits that *do work* until it finds
  the optimal number of histogram bins in each segment that **minimizes the
  error on the mean**. Again, it does this without user intervention. 
- Returns the optimized bin number, the optimized mean mag value, the error on
  the mean associated with the optimized mean mag value, and the standard
  deviation of the Gaussian. 

It afterwards plots the `n` optimized mean mag values generated by the `n` bins and
overlays a linear fit across these mean mag values on top of the CMD from which
these values were derived. If all goes well, you should get a fitted slope that
lines up relatively with the RC slope along with a quantified error for the mag
values of the slope! See `work/plots&data/rc_analysis_plots/`.

The second class is similar, but a bit more accurate. Made especially for CMDs who's
RC bar can not solely be extracted with a rectangular cutoff (see
`work/plots&data/color_magnitude_diagram_plots/NRCB1 F115W-NRCB1 F212N_NRCB1
F115W_density.png`). It only requires two parallel lines that *roughly* define
the RC bar by the upper and lower edges. It afterwards implements a left-riemann cutoff by
generating `n` tiled-diagonal bins. 

It afterwards performs the rest of the same procedure as the first
class -- optimized compound fitting. 
As this method includes less excess stars that are **not** in the RC bar
it proves to be slightly more accurate.

I utilize [SPISEA](https://spisea.readthedocs.io) developed by Hosek+18 et al. to derive 
theoretical synthetic isochrones for my research. 
